Plant disease has also been one of the major threats to food security because it dramatically reduces the crop yield and compromises its quality. Accurate and precise diagnosis of diseases has been a significant challenge. Among various network architectures used in deep learning, convolutional neural networks (CNN) are widely used in image recognitions consist of convolutional layers, which are sets of image filters convoluted to images or feature maps, along with other layers. In image classification, feature maps are extracted through convolution and other processing layers repetitively and the network eventually outputs a label indicating an estimated class. Given a training dataset, CNN, unlike traditional machine learning techniques that use hand-crafted features, optimizes the weights and filter parameters in the hidden layers to generate features suitable to solve the classification problem. In principle, the parameters in the network are optimized by back-propagation and gradient descent approaches to minimize the classification error. we provide a deeper evaluation of the visualization methods against the CNNs in plant science applications. Our results show that several visualization methods are usable in their original form, indicating that the CNN captures the lesion-specific features of respective diseases. However, several methods have to go through a process of targeted layer optimization to generate an optimum result owing to the differences in the CNN architecture and the datasets.For the disease detection of various plants this project is developed only for Tomato and Cotton plants. More varieties of plants will be
added depending upon the availability of data.
